# PiWars_2020_Dan-ED
Dan-ED is a robot built to take part in the Pi-Wars challenges.  We have been developing Dan-ED for the past year.  It is built completely from Lego with power function motors driving a caterpillar track.  Apart from looking vaguely like Disney’s Wall-E character, the robot is
completely unique with every part built from scratch using various types of Lego.  Dan-ED has gone through several iterations, with different drive train arrangements and using different  controllers.  We originally started off with an Arduino controller, due to ease of programming, but eventually switched to Raspberry Pi, initially using a pi-zero with a motozero driver board to drive the motors.  All programming has been undertaken in python, which took some time to learn.

Our robot works quite well in manual mode.  A wireless game pad has been integrated to allow control of the motors. We tried out some of the challenges in Pi-wars 2019 and were able to control it on challenges such as ‘Spirit of Curiosity’.  Our robot has basic autonomous functionality, using line followers to allow it to follow a white line.  We had originally intended to implement camera based machine vision for the autonomous challenges, but ran out of time.  This year ‘Uncle John’ - based in Canada, will be helping out more.  The older children have also expressed more interest in coding, and I’m hopeful they will do more too. Last year it was mostly Danny (aged 5) providing support and encouragement and masterminding the basic design for the Lego body!
